README.md, before:

# ENCODE Transcription Factor and Histone ChIP-Seq processing pipeline

[![CircleCI](https://circleci.com/gh/ENCODE-DCC/chip-seq-pipeline2/tree/master.svg?style=svg)](https://circleci.com/gh/ENCODE-DCC/chip-seq-pipeline2/tree/master)

## Introduction 
This ChIP-Seq pipeline is based off the ENCODE (phase-3) transcription factor and histone ChIP-seq pipeline specifications (by Anshul Kundaje) in [this google doc](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1lG_Rd7fnYgRpSIqrIfuVlAz2dW1VaSQThzk836Db99c/edit#).

### Features

* **Portability**: Support for many cloud platforms (Google/DNAnexus) and cluster engines (SLURM/SGE/PBS).
* **User-friendly HTML report**: tabulated quality metrics including alignment/peak statistics and FRiP along with many useful plots (IDR/cross-correlation measures).
  - Examples: [HTML](https://storage.googleapis.com/encode-pipeline-test-samples/encode-chip-seq-pipeline/ENCSR000DYI/example_output/qc.html), [JSON](docs/example_output/v1.1.5/qc.json)
* **Genomes**: Pre-built database for GRCh38, hg19, mm10, mm9 and additional support for custom genomes.

## Installation

1) Install [Caper](https://github.com/ENCODE-DCC/caper#installation). Caper is a python wrapper for [Cromwell](https://github.com/broadinstitute/cromwell). Make sure that you have python3(> 3.4.1) installed on your system.

  ```bash
  $ pip install caper
  ```

2) Read through [Caper's README](https://github.com/ENCODE-DCC/caper) carefully.

3) Run a pipeline with Caper.

## DNAnexus

You can also run our pipeline on DNAnexus without using Caper or Cromwell. There are two ways to build a workflow on DNAnexus based on our WDL.

1) [dxWDL CLI](docs/tutorial_dx_cli.md)
2) [DNAnexus Web UI](docs/tutorial_dx_web.md)

## Conda

We don't recommend Conda for resolving software dependencies. Use Docker or Singularity instead. We will not take any issues about Conda. You can install Singularity and use it for our pipeline with Caper (by adding `--use-singularity` to command line arguments).

1) Install [Conda](https://docs.conda.io/en/latest/miniconda.html).

2) Install Conda environment for pipeline.

  ```bash
  $ conda/install_dependencies.sh
  ```

3) Initialize Conda and re-login.

  ```bash
  $ conda init bash
  $ exit
  ```

4) Configure pipeline's python2 and python3 environments.

  ```bash
  $ conda/config_conda_env.sh
  $ conda/config_conda_env_py3.sh
  ```

5) Update pipeline's Conda environment with pipeline's python source code. You need to run this step everytime you update (`git pull`) this pipeline.

  ```bash
  $ conda/update_conda_env.sh
  ```

## Tutorial

Make sure that you have configured Caper correctly.
> **WARNING**: DO NOT RUN THIS ON HPC LOGIN NODES. YOUR JOBS WILL BE KILLED.

Run it. Due to `--deepcopy` all files in `examples/caper/ENCSR936XTK_subsampled_chr19_only.json` will be recursively copied into Caper's temporary folder (`--tmp-dir`).
```bash
$ caper run chip.wdl -i examples/caper/ENCSR936XTK_subsampled_chr19_only.json --deepcopy --use-singularity
```

If you use Conda or Docker (on cloud platforms) then remove `--use-singularity` from the command line and activate it before running a pipeline.
```bash
$ conda activate encode-chip-seq-pipeline
$ caper run chip.wdl -i examples/caper/ENCSR936XTK_subsampled_chr19_only.json --deepcopy
```

To run it on an HPC (e.g. Stanford Sherlock and SCG). See details at [Caper's README](https://github.com/ENCODE-DCC/caper/blob/master/README.md#how-to-run-it-on-slurm-cluster).

## Input JSON file

Always use absolute paths in an input JSON.

[Input JSON file specification](docs/input.md)

## How to organize outputs

Install [Croo](https://github.com/ENCODE-DCC/croo#installation). Make sure that you have python3(> 3.4.1) installed on your system.

```bash
$ pip install croo
```

Find a `metadata.json` on Caper's output directory.

```bash
$ croo [METADATA_JSON_FILE]
```

## How to build/download genome database

You need to specify a genome data TSV file in your input JSON. Such TSV can be generated/downloaded with actual genome database files.

Use genome database [downloader](genome/download_genome_data.sh) or [builder](docs/build_genome_database.md) for your own genome.

## Useful tools

There are some useful tools to post-process outputs of the pipeline.

### qc_jsons_to_tsv

[This tool](utils/qc_jsons_to_tsv/README.md) recursively finds and parses all `qc.json` (pipeline's [final output](docs/example_output/v1.1.5/qc.json)) found from a specified root directory. It generates a TSV file that has all quality metrics tabulated in rows for each experiment and replicate. This tool also estimates overall quality of a sample by [a criteria definition JSON file](utils/qc_jsons_to_tsv/criteria.default.json) which can be a good guideline for QC'ing experiments.

### ENCODE downloader

[This tool](https://github.com/kundajelab/ENCODE_downloader) downloads any type (FASTQ, BAM, PEAK, ...) of data from the ENCODE portal. It also generates a metadata JSON file per experiment which will be very useful to make an input JSON file for the pipeline.

Commit message:

update README (about conda support/recommendation)

README.md, after:

# ENCODE Transcription Factor and Histone ChIP-Seq processing pipeline

[![CircleCI](https://circleci.com/gh/ENCODE-DCC/chip-seq-pipeline2/tree/master.svg?style=svg)](https://circleci.com/gh/ENCODE-DCC/chip-seq-pipeline2/tree/master)

## Introduction 
This ChIP-Seq pipeline is based off the ENCODE (phase-3) transcription factor and histone ChIP-seq pipeline specifications (by Anshul Kundaje) in [this google doc](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1lG_Rd7fnYgRpSIqrIfuVlAz2dW1VaSQThzk836Db99c/edit#).

### Features

* **Portability**: Support for many cloud platforms (Google/DNAnexus) and cluster engines (SLURM/SGE/PBS).
* **User-friendly HTML report**: tabulated quality metrics including alignment/peak statistics and FRiP along with many useful plots (IDR/cross-correlation measures).
  - Examples: [HTML](https://storage.googleapis.com/encode-pipeline-test-samples/encode-chip-seq-pipeline/ENCSR000DYI/example_output/qc.html), [JSON](docs/example_output/v1.1.5/qc.json)
* **Genomes**: Pre-built database for GRCh38, hg19, mm10, mm9 and additional support for custom genomes.

## Installation

1) Install [Caper](https://github.com/ENCODE-DCC/caper#installation). Caper is a python wrapper for [Cromwell](https://github.com/broadinstitute/cromwell). Make sure that you have python3(> 3.4.1) installed on your system.

  ```bash
  $ pip install caper
  ```

2) Read through [Caper's README](https://github.com/ENCODE-DCC/caper) carefully.

3) Run a pipeline with Caper.

## DNAnexus

You can also run our pipeline on DNAnexus without using Caper or Cromwell. There are two ways to build a workflow on DNAnexus based on our WDL.

1) [dxWDL CLI](docs/tutorial_dx_cli.md)
2) [DNAnexus Web UI](docs/tutorial_dx_web.md)

## Conda

We no longer recommend Conda for resolving dependencies and plan to phase out Conda support. Instead we recommend using Docker or Singularity. You can install Singularity and use it for our pipeline with Caper (by adding `--use-singularity` to command line arguments).

1) Install [Conda](https://docs.conda.io/en/latest/miniconda.html).

2) Install Conda environment for pipeline.

  ```bash
  $ conda/install_dependencies.sh
  ```

3) Initialize Conda and re-login.

  ```bash
  $ conda init bash
  $ exit
  ```

4) Configure pipeline's python2 and python3 environments.

  ```bash
  $ conda/config_conda_env.sh
  $ conda/config_conda_env_py3.sh
  ```

5) Update pipeline's Conda environment with pipeline's python source code. You need to run this step everytime you update (`git pull`) this pipeline.

  ```bash
  $ conda/update_conda_env.sh
  ```

## Tutorial

Make sure that you have configured Caper correctly.
> **WARNING**: DO NOT RUN THIS ON HPC LOGIN NODES. YOUR JOBS WILL BE KILLED.

Run it. Due to `--deepcopy` all files in `examples/caper/ENCSR936XTK_subsampled_chr19_only.json` will be recursively copied into Caper's temporary folder (`--tmp-dir`).
```bash
$ caper run chip.wdl -i examples/caper/ENCSR936XTK_subsampled_chr19_only.json --deepcopy --use-singularity
```

If you use Conda or Docker (on cloud platforms) then remove `--use-singularity` from the command line and activate it before running a pipeline.
```bash
$ conda activate encode-chip-seq-pipeline
$ caper run chip.wdl -i examples/caper/ENCSR936XTK_subsampled_chr19_only.json --deepcopy
```

To run it on an HPC (e.g. Stanford Sherlock and SCG). See details at [Caper's README](https://github.com/ENCODE-DCC/caper/blob/master/README.md#how-to-run-it-on-slurm-cluster).

## Input JSON file

Always use absolute paths in an input JSON.

[Input JSON file specification](docs/input.md)

## How to organize outputs

Install [Croo](https://github.com/ENCODE-DCC/croo#installation). Make sure that you have python3(> 3.4.1) installed on your system.

```bash
$ pip install croo
```

Find a `metadata.json` on Caper's output directory.

```bash
$ croo [METADATA_JSON_FILE]
```

## How to build/download genome database

You need to specify a genome data TSV file in your input JSON. Such TSV can be generated/downloaded with actual genome database files.

Use genome database [downloader](genome/download_genome_data.sh) or [builder](docs/build_genome_database.md) for your own genome.

## Useful tools

There are some useful tools to post-process outputs of the pipeline.

### qc_jsons_to_tsv

[This tool](utils/qc_jsons_to_tsv/README.md) recursively finds and parses all `qc.json` (pipeline's [final output](docs/example_output/v1.1.5/qc.json)) found from a specified root directory. It generates a TSV file that has all quality metrics tabulated in rows for each experiment and replicate. This tool also estimates overall quality of a sample by [a criteria definition JSON file](utils/qc_jsons_to_tsv/criteria.default.json) which can be a good guideline for QC'ing experiments.

### ENCODE downloader

[This tool](https://github.com/kundajelab/ENCODE_downloader) downloads any type (FASTQ, BAM, PEAK, ...) of data from the ENCODE portal. It also generates a metadata JSON file per experiment which will be very useful to make an input JSON file for the pipeline.
