docs/output.md, before:

# Output specification

All output filenames keep prefixes from corresponding input filenames. For example. If you have started from `REP1.fastq.gz` and `REP2.fastq.gz` then corresponding alignment log for each replicate has a filename of `REP1.flagstat.qc` and `REP2.flagstat.qc`, respectively.

Final HTML report (`qc.html`) and QC json (`qc.json`) files do not have any prefix.

1. `DNAnexus`: Output will be stored on the specified output directory without any subdirectories.

2. `Cromwell`: `Cromwell` will store outputs for each task under `cromwell-executions/[WORKFLOW_ID]/call-[TASK_NAME]/shard-[IDX]`. For all tasks except two peak calling tasks `idr` (irreproducible discovery rate) and `overlap` (naive overlapping peaks), `[IDX]` means a zero-based index for each replicate. For two tasks `idr` and `overlap`, `[IDX]` stands for a zero-based index for all possible pair of replicates. For example, you have 3 replicates and all possible combination of two replicates are `[(rep1,rep2), (rep1,rep3), (rep2,rep3)]`. Therefore, `call-idr/shard-2` should be an output directory for the pair of replicate 2 and 3.

For more details, refer to the file table section in an HTML report generated by the pipeline. Files marked as (E) are outputs to be uploaded during ENCODE accession.

|task|filename| description|
|-|-|-|
|merge_fastq| merge_fastqs_R?_*.fastq.gz| Merged FASTQ|
|trim_fastq| *.trim_*bp.fastq.gz| Trimmed FASTQ (R1 only) |
|bwa| * .bam| Raw BAM|
|bwa| * .bai| BAI for Raw BAM|
|bwa| * .flagstat.qc| Samtools flagstat log for raw BAM|
|filter| * .nodup.bam| Filtered/deduped BAM|
|filter| * .nodup.flagstat.qc| Samtools flagstat log for filtered/deduped BAM|
|filter| * .dup.qc| Picard/sambamba markdup log|
|filter| * .pbc.qc| PBC QC log|
|bam2ta| * .tagAlign.gz| TAG-ALIGN generated from filtered BAM|
|bam2ta| * .N.tagAlign.gz| Subsampled (N reads) TAG-ALIGN generated from filtered BAM|
|bam2ta| * .tn5.tagAlign.gz| TN5-shifted TAG-ALIGN|
|spr| * .pr1.tagAlign.gz| 1st pseudo-replicated TAG-ALIGN|
|spr| * .pr2.tagAlign.gz| 2nd pseudo-replicated TAG-ALIGN|
|pool_ta| * .tagAlign.gz| Pooled TAG-ALIGN from all replciates|
|fingerprint| * .jsd.qc| DeepTools fingerprint log|
|fingerprint| * .png| DeepTools fingerprint plot|
|choose_ctl| ctl_for_rep*.tagAlign.gz | Chosen control for each IP replicate|
|xcor| * .cc.plot.pdf| Cross-correlation plot PDF|
|xcor| * .cc.plot.png| Cross-correlation plot PNG|
|xcor| * .cc.qc| Cross-correlation analysis score log|
|xcor| * .cc.fraglen.txt| Estimated fragment length|
|macs2| * .narrowPeak.gz| NARROWPEAK|
|macs2| * .bfilt.narrowPeak.gz| Blacklist-filtered NARROWPEAK|
|macs2| * .bfilt.narrowPeak.bb| Blacklist-filtered NARROWPEAK in BigBed format|
|macs2| * .pval.signal.bigwig| p-val signal BIGWIG|
|macs2| * .fc.signal.bigwig| fold enrichment signal BIGWIG|
|macs2| * .frip.qc| Fraction of read (TAG-ALIGN) in peaks (NARROWPEAK)|
|spp| * .regionPeak.gz| SPP NARROWPEAK(REGIONPEAK)|
|spp| * .bfilt.regionPeak.gz| Blacklist-filtered REGIONPEAK|
|spp| * .bfilt.regionPeak.bb| Blacklist-filtered REGIONPEAK in BigBed format|
|spp| * .frip.qc| Fraction of read (TAG-ALIGN) in peaks (REGIONPEAK)|
|idr| * .*Peak.gz| IDR NARROWPEAK|
|idr| * .bfilt.*Peak.gz| Blacklist-filtered IDR NARROWPEAK|
|idr| * .bfilt.*Peak.bb| Blacklist-filtered IDR NARROWPEAK in BigBed format|
|idr| * .txt.png| IDR plot PNG|
|idr| * .txt.gz| Unthresholded IDR output|
|idr| * .log| IDR STDOUT log|
|idr| * .frip.qc| Fraction of read (TAG-ALIGN) in peaks (IDR NARROWPEAK)|
|overlap| * .*Peak.gz| Overlapping NARROWPEAK|
|overlap| * .bfilt.*Peak.gz| Blacklist-filtered overlapping NARROWPEAK|
|overlap| * .bfilt.*Peak.bb| Blacklist-filtered overlapping NARROWPEAK in BigBed format|
|overlap| * .frip.qc| Fraction of read (TAG-ALIGN) in peaks (overlapping NARROWPEAK)|
|reproducibility| * .reproducibility.qc| Reproducibililty QC log|
|reproducibility| optimal_peak.gz| Optimal final peak file|
|reproducibility| optimal_peak.bb| Optimal final peak file in BigBed format|
|reproducibility| conservative_peak.gz| Conservative final peak file|
|reproducibility| conservative_peak.bb| Conservative final peak file in BigBed format|
|qc_report| qc.html| Final HTML QC report|
|qc_report| qc.json| Final QC JSON|

Commit message:

update doc for output spec

docs/output.md, after:

# Output specification

All output filenames keep prefixes from corresponding input filenames. For example. If you have started from `REP1.fastq.gz` and `REP2.fastq.gz` then corresponding alignment log for each replicate has a filename of `REP1.flagstat.qc` and `REP2.flagstat.qc`, respectively.

Final HTML report (`qc.html`) and QC json (`qc.json`) files do not have any prefix.

1. `DNAnexus`: Output will be stored on the specified output directory without any subdirectories.

2. `Cromwell`: `Cromwell` will store outputs for each task under `cromwell-executions/[WORKFLOW_ID]/call-[TASK_NAME]/shard-[IDX]`. For all tasks except two peak calling tasks `idr` (irreproducible discovery rate) and `overlap` (naive overlapping peaks), `[IDX]` means a zero-based index for each replicate. For two tasks `idr` and `overlap`, `[IDX]` stands for a zero-based index for all possible pair of replicates. For example, you have 3 replicates and all possible combination of two replicates are `[(rep1,rep2), (rep1,rep3), (rep2,rep3)]`. Therefore, `call-idr/shard-2` should be an output directory for the pair of replicate 2 and 3.

There can be duplicate output files on `execution/` and `execution/glob-*/` directories. A file on the latter (`execution/glob-*/`) is a symbolic link of an actual output file on the former. For Google Cloud Storage bucket (`gs://`) there is no `execution/` directory and files on `glob-*/` are actual outputs.

|task|filename| description|
|-|-|-|
|merge_fastq| merge_fastqs_R?_*.fastq.gz| Merged FASTQ|
|trim_fastq| *.trim_*bp.fastq.gz| Trimmed FASTQ (R1 only) |
|bwa| * .bam| Raw BAM|
|bwa| * .bai| BAI for Raw BAM|
|bwa| * .flagstat.qc| Samtools flagstat log for raw BAM|
|filter| * .nodup.bam| Filtered/deduped BAM|
|filter| * .nodup.flagstat.qc| Samtools flagstat log for filtered/deduped BAM|
|filter| * .dup.qc| Picard/sambamba markdup log|
|filter| * .pbc.qc| PBC QC log|
|bam2ta| * .tagAlign.gz| TAG-ALIGN generated from filtered BAM|
|bam2ta| * .N.tagAlign.gz| Subsampled (N reads) TAG-ALIGN generated from filtered BAM|
|bam2ta| * .tn5.tagAlign.gz| TN5-shifted TAG-ALIGN|
|spr| * .pr1.tagAlign.gz| 1st pseudo-replicated TAG-ALIGN|
|spr| * .pr2.tagAlign.gz| 2nd pseudo-replicated TAG-ALIGN|
|pool_ta| * .tagAlign.gz| Pooled TAG-ALIGN from all replciates|
|fingerprint| * .jsd.qc| DeepTools fingerprint log|
|fingerprint| * .png| DeepTools fingerprint plot|
|choose_ctl| ctl_for_rep*.tagAlign.gz | Chosen control for each IP replicate|
|xcor| * .cc.plot.pdf| Cross-correlation plot PDF|
|xcor| * .cc.plot.png| Cross-correlation plot PNG|
|xcor| * .cc.qc| Cross-correlation analysis score log|
|xcor| * .cc.fraglen.txt| Estimated fragment length|
|macs2| * .narrowPeak.gz| NARROWPEAK|
|macs2| * .bfilt.narrowPeak.gz| Blacklist-filtered NARROWPEAK|
|macs2| * .bfilt.narrowPeak.bb| Blacklist-filtered NARROWPEAK in BigBed format|
|macs2| * .pval.signal.bigwig| p-val signal BIGWIG|
|macs2| * .fc.signal.bigwig| fold enrichment signal BIGWIG|
|macs2| * .frip.qc| Fraction of read (TAG-ALIGN) in peaks (NARROWPEAK)|
|spp| * .regionPeak.gz| SPP NARROWPEAK(REGIONPEAK)|
|spp| * .bfilt.regionPeak.gz| Blacklist-filtered REGIONPEAK|
|spp| * .bfilt.regionPeak.bb| Blacklist-filtered REGIONPEAK in BigBed format|
|spp| * .frip.qc| Fraction of read (TAG-ALIGN) in peaks (REGIONPEAK)|
|idr| * .*Peak.gz| IDR NARROWPEAK|
|idr| * .bfilt.*Peak.gz| Blacklist-filtered IDR NARROWPEAK|
|idr| * .bfilt.*Peak.bb| Blacklist-filtered IDR NARROWPEAK in BigBed format|
|idr| * .txt.png| IDR plot PNG|
|idr| * .txt.gz| Unthresholded IDR output|
|idr| * .log| IDR STDOUT log|
|idr| * .frip.qc| Fraction of read (TAG-ALIGN) in peaks (IDR NARROWPEAK)|
|overlap| * .*Peak.gz| Overlapping NARROWPEAK|
|overlap| * .bfilt.*Peak.gz| Blacklist-filtered overlapping NARROWPEAK|
|overlap| * .bfilt.*Peak.bb| Blacklist-filtered overlapping NARROWPEAK in BigBed format|
|overlap| * .frip.qc| Fraction of read (TAG-ALIGN) in peaks (overlapping NARROWPEAK)|
|reproducibility| * .reproducibility.qc| Reproducibililty QC log|
|reproducibility| optimal_peak.gz| Optimal final peak file|
|reproducibility| optimal_peak.bb| Optimal final peak file in BigBed format|
|reproducibility| conservative_peak.gz| Conservative final peak file|
|reproducibility| conservative_peak.bb| Conservative final peak file in BigBed format|
|qc_report| qc.html| Final HTML QC report|
|qc_report| qc.json| Final QC JSON|
