docs/tutorial_local_conda.md, before:

# Tutorial for general UNIX computers without docker

1. Download [cromwell](https://github.com/broadinstitute/cromwell).
    ```bash
    $ cd
    $ wget https://github.com/broadinstitute/cromwell/releases/download/34/cromwell-34.jar
    $ chmod +rx cromwell-34.jar
    ```

2. Git clone this pipeline and move into it.
    ```bash
    $ cd
    $ git clone https://github.com/ENCODE-DCC/chip-seq-pipeline2
    $ cd chip-seq-pipeline2
    ```

3. Download a SUBSAMPLED paired-end sample of [ENCSR936XTK](https://www.encodeproject.org/experiments/ENCSR936XTK/).
    ```bash
    $ wget https://storage.googleapis.com/encode-pipeline-test-samples/encode-chip-seq-pipeline/ENCSR936XTK/ENCSR936XTK_fastq_subsampled.tar
    $ tar xvf ENCSR936XTK_fastq_subsampled.tar
    ```

4. Download pre-built genome database for hg38.
    ```bash
    $ wget https://storage.googleapis.com/encode-pipeline-genome-data/test_genome_database_hg38_chip.tar
    $ tar xvf test_genome_database_hg38_chip.tar
    ```

5. [Install Conda](https://conda.io/miniconda.html). Skip this if you already have equivalent Conda alternatives (Anaconda Python). Download and run the [installer](https://repo.anaconda.com/miniconda/Miniconda3-latest-Linux-x86_64.sh). Agree to the license term by typing `yes`. It will ask you about the installation location. On Stanford clusters (Sherlock and SCG4), we recommend to install it outside of your `$HOME` directory since its filesystem is slow and has very limited space. At the end of the installation, choose `yes` to add Miniconda's binary to `$PATH` in your BASH startup script.
    ```bash
    $ wget https://repo.anaconda.com/miniconda/Miniconda3-latest-Linux-x86_64.sh
    $ bash Miniconda3-latest-Linux-x86_64.sh
    ```

6. Install Conda dependencies.
    ```bash
    $ bash conda/uninstall_dependencies.sh  # to remove any existing pipeline env
    $ bash conda/install_dependencies.sh
    ```
    
7. Run a pipeline for the test sample.
    ```bash
    $ source activate encode-chip-seq-pipeline # IMPORTANT!
    $ INPUT=examples/local/ENCSR936XTK_subsampled.json
    $ PIPELINE_METADATA=metadata.json
    $ java -jar -Dconfig.file=backends/backend.conf cromwell-34.jar run chip.wdl -i ${INPUT} -m ${PIPELINE_METADATA}
    ```

8. It will take about 6 hours. You will be able to find all outputs on `cromwell-executions/chip/[RANDOM_HASH_STRING]/`. See [output directory structure](output.md) for details.

9. See full specification for [input JSON file](input.md).

10. You can resume a failed pipeline from where it left off by using `PIPELINE_METADATA`(`metadata.json`) file. This file is created for each pipeline run. See [here](../utils/resumer/README.md) for details. Once you get a new input JSON file from the resumer, use it `INPUT=resume.[FAILED_WORKFLOW_ID].json` instead of `INPUT=examples/local/ENCSR936XTK_subsampled.json`.

Commit message:

reduce genome data size of test sample (ENCSR936XTK_subsampled -> ENCSR936XTK_subsampled_chr19_only)

docs/tutorial_local_conda.md, after:

# Tutorial for general UNIX computers without docker

1. Download [cromwell](https://github.com/broadinstitute/cromwell).
    ```bash
    $ cd
    $ wget https://github.com/broadinstitute/cromwell/releases/download/34/cromwell-34.jar
    $ chmod +rx cromwell-34.jar
    ```

2. Git clone this pipeline and move into it.
    ```bash
    $ cd
    $ git clone https://github.com/ENCODE-DCC/chip-seq-pipeline2
    $ cd chip-seq-pipeline2
    ```

3. Download a SUBSAMPLED paired-end sample of [ENCSR936XTK](https://www.encodeproject.org/experiments/ENCSR936XTK/).
    ```bash
    $ wget https://storage.googleapis.com/encode-pipeline-test-samples/encode-chip-seq-pipeline/ENCSR936XTK/ENCSR936XTK_fastq_subsampled.tar
    $ tar xvf ENCSR936XTK_fastq_subsampled.tar
    ```

4. Download pre-built chr19/chrM-only genome database for hg38.
    ```bash
    $ wget https://storage.googleapis.com/encode-pipeline-genome-data/test_genome_database_hg38_chr19_chrM_chip.tar
    $ tar xvf test_genome_database_hg38_chip.tar
    ```

5. [Install Conda](https://conda.io/miniconda.html). Skip this if you already have equivalent Conda alternatives (Anaconda Python). Download and run the [installer](https://repo.anaconda.com/miniconda/Miniconda3-latest-Linux-x86_64.sh). Agree to the license term by typing `yes`. It will ask you about the installation location. On Stanford clusters (Sherlock and SCG4), we recommend to install it outside of your `$HOME` directory since its filesystem is slow and has very limited space. At the end of the installation, choose `yes` to add Miniconda's binary to `$PATH` in your BASH startup script.
    ```bash
    $ wget https://repo.anaconda.com/miniconda/Miniconda3-latest-Linux-x86_64.sh
    $ bash Miniconda3-latest-Linux-x86_64.sh
    ```

6. Install Conda dependencies.
    ```bash
    $ bash conda/uninstall_dependencies.sh  # to remove any existing pipeline env
    $ bash conda/install_dependencies.sh
    ```
    
7. Run a pipeline for the test sample.
    ```bash
    $ source activate encode-chip-seq-pipeline # IMPORTANT!
    $ INPUT=examples/local/ENCSR936XTK_subsampled_chr19_only.json
    $ PIPELINE_METADATA=metadata.json
    $ java -jar -Dconfig.file=backends/backend.conf cromwell-34.jar run chip.wdl -i ${INPUT} -m ${PIPELINE_METADATA}
    ```

8. It will take about 6 hours. You will be able to find all outputs on `cromwell-executions/chip/[RANDOM_HASH_STRING]/`. See [output directory structure](output.md) for details.

9. See full specification for [input JSON file](input.md).

10. You can resume a failed pipeline from where it left off by using `PIPELINE_METADATA`(`metadata.json`) file. This file is created for each pipeline run. See [here](../utils/resumer/README.md) for details. Once you get a new input JSON file from the resumer, use it `INPUT=resume.[FAILED_WORKFLOW_ID].json` instead of `INPUT=examples/local/ENCSR936XTK_subsampled_chr19_only.json`.
